# C1 You the Programmer

## 写得好
Late at night, when the day’s work is done but the brain is still buzzing, programmers have sometimes been known to ask themselves this question: Is programming an art or a science?

Surely it seems like a bit of both. As an artist, the programmer starts with a palette of basic tools, spreads open a canvas as wide as available memory, and with a dash of inspiration begins fashioning a unique creation where once existed only random bits. But the canvas can’t be decorated with complete anarchic abandon. The syntactical rules that govern the tools of programming may allow an infinite variety of constructions, but at the same time they are as strict and unrelenting as the laws of nature.

Programmers are the designers and builders, architects and bricklayers, visionaries and engineers of the modern age. The edifices we build become the global cities of the future, an ever-expanding series of links and connections between people, communities, and information, often with a beauty truly admired only by those who share our passion. To nonprogrammers, our creations are rarely respected—unacknowledged when they work correctly, cursed when they fail, and abandoned when they become superseded—even as they become ever more essential to users’ lives.

A computer program is a magnificent machine. Were it to be implemented with whirling gears, levers, and pistons, it would fill our rooms with a music of breathtaking complexity. We’d see logic in motion, algebra in action, a dance of data. A strange vision, yes, but that’s really the perspective the programmer sees, as pieces of a program are fitted together with a precision unmatched by machinery in the corporeal world. Few joys in life come close to the thrill of getting a new program working, seeing it suddenly blink awake and take life before your eyes.

Such joys are never experienced by the vast majority of computer users. Most people who use computers these days aren’t programmers and never will be. They instead simply run applications—word processors, e-mail programs, Web browsers—that other people have programmed, or they use appliances—cell phones, DVD players, bread machines—that have computer programs embedded deep inside.

It wasn’t always like this. Prior to 1970 (or so), getting something useful out of a computer without programming for it was just about impossible. The computer revolution really took place in two stages—the first stage was when computers were originally designed and built, and the second stage was several decades later when computers were made available to nonprogrammers. The computer user was born, and programmers and users haven’t been able to communicate ever since!


## Some Words
- In a traditional procedure programming language, code crunches data.
- In an object-oriented language, Data crunches itself.
- Programming is a problem-solving activity. The single most important quality of a programmer is an ability to decompose problems, to break a problem down into little pieces. The tools that C# gives you really apply only to the little pieces. It’s the programmer’s responsibility to then put the little pieces back together to compose the total solution to the problem. This ability, too, improves with practice.

# C2 First Assignments
Computers and programming were first invented to perform numerical calculations, so it shouldn’t be surprising that many programming languages have adopted certain elements of algebra, including the use of letters or words to represent numbers.

The letters A, B, and C are called variables and—if you want to get technical about it—variables symbolize locations in memory where the values of the variables are stored.

Variables are called variables because they can vary.

To avoid confusion between algebra and programming, programmers sometimes call the equal sign a gets, as in “C gets A plus B,” or an assigns, as in “C is assigned A plus B.” Others call it a gozinta as in “A plus B goes into C.”

# C3 Declarations of Purpose
When a C# program runs, the declaration statement causes a small amount of memory to be set aside specifically to store the value of the variable. It is said that memory is allocated for the variable.

There is no difference between initializing a variable in the declaration statement and assigning the variable a value right after the declaration statement.

Between the time that a variable is declared and the time it is first assigned a value, the variable is said to be uninitialized. It has no value, or rather it probably has some random value. The C# compiler won’t allow you to use an uninitialized variable.

In general, a method gets input in the form of some variables, which are called the method parameters. The method crunches these variables in some way and then outputs a result, which is called a return value.

# C4 Edit, Compile, Run
The C# compiler is a program that reads source code and creates intermediate language (IL), generally in the form of a file with the extension .EXE (which stands for Executable). 

When you finally persuade the compiler to create an .EXE file, you can run that program. The program is now under the care of the operating system and, in the case of C# programs, the common language runtime (CLR) part of .NET.

In Visual C# .NET, programs are called projects. Projects can contain one or more source-code files.

Visual C# .NET actually groups projects into something it calls solutions. A solution can contain one or more projects. (The idea is that a solution can encompass multiple .EXE files and dynamic link libraries. Each .EXE file and DLL is a different project in the same solution.) 

Experimentation is probably the single most important activity in learning a programming language. The great thing about programming is that experimentation is both easy and safe. It’s not like a chemistry set. You’re not going to blow up your house. 

There actually is quite a significant difference between classes and structures, and understanding that difference in all its implications will be one of the important aspects of C# programming you’ll learn in this book. But in other ways, class and struct are identical.

If you want to give .EXE files of your C# programs to your friends to run, they’ll need to have the Microsoft .NET Framework Redistributable installed.

# C5 Console Output
All classes in the .NET Framework are organized in namespaces that separate the classes into functional groups.

I’ve been using the terms parameter and argument. I’ve said that the WriteLine method has a single parameter named value. I’ve also said that when a program calls WriteLine, it passes an argument to the method, which in this example is TotalTkts. Obviously, there’s a close relationship between parameters and arguments—so close that some programmers even use the two words interchangeably. But you should keep the words straight. The difference is really one of perspective, depending on whether you’re looking at things from inside the method or outside the method. If you could get inside the WriteLine method, you’d see code that displayed the value parameter to the console. But that code is not actually executed until a program calls WriteLine with an argument.

The keyword using is followed by a namespace name and a semicolon. This line is called a directive rather than a statement because it doesn’t have any role when the program is eventually running. It merely instructs the compiler that any class referred to in the program is possibly a member of the System namespace.

If you include such a using directive in your program, you then can call WriteLine by specifying only the class name and method name.

invocation expression, but most C# programmers would say that it’s a method call.

Programs must have some way to display output to the user and get input from the user, called user input and output, or I/O. The methods for doing this, which are sometimes referred to as I/O models, differ depending on what the program is being used for. A program running under Windows gets user input from the keyboard, the mouse, and various controls such as buttons and scroll bars. A Windows program displays output to the user in the form of text and graphics. A program embedded in a microwave oven would have a much different user I/O model. The input would comprise the buttons on the front panel, and the output would be devices that turn the oven on and off, spin the platter, and turn on the light. Like C, the C# languages does not itself include any provision for user I/O. This might sound like a deficiency, but it’s really not. It’s more correct to say that C# does not impose any particular user I/O model on the programmer. You choose your I/O depending on what your program will be used for.

For the more common user I/O models—Windows, the Web, or the console—you make use of classes and methods defined in the .NET Framework.